Even though we're automating,
and creating everything through CloudFormation,
when it comes to the database,
I highly recommend that you use something like the console to create your resource simply
because usually database is
a one time situation where you would create the database and that said.
You don't want to be updating your script constantly and having that database there.
However, you do have the option,
and I'm going to show you right now.
We'll go to our browser. We'll do CloudFormation,
RDS, I'll go to Syntax.
Everything that we just did in the console to create a database,
we can come here,
pick up this template and do it exactly like that.
Let's take a look at some of the parameters.
Everything we discuss such as allocators storage
which is part of the initial hardware specification,
allow measure version upgrade,
minor version upgrade,
those features are the ones that were mentioned on their maintenance.
If you allow maintenance,
you have this options to allow these patches to
go through without having to wait for your permission.
The same thing regarding snapshots,
the instance class which is the CPU and memory combination, and so on.
You get to control all this.
For example, you see here that KMS Key ID,
if you choose to encrypt,
you can manage everything from here.
Now, when it comes to creating databases and confirmation,
like I said is not something that you want to do
all the time because if you have data there,
you want that data to persist.
So there's a small CloudFormation feature
that you want to be aware of. Let's take a look.
I'm going to go and Google Cloud Formation retention policy.
As you see in this example,
let's take a look at the YAML version here,
the last line says,
"Delation policy equals retain."
What that means is it gives me the option for
any resource whether it's a DBC and S3 Bucket or a database,
I have the option of adding this line that says retain.
So if I delete the stack,
if I update the stack,
this will be there.
You don't have to worry that every time you run your platform ancient script,
your data might be lost or your database might be wiped out.
So just keep in mind that you have this option in
the Cloud formation of retaining a resource.
Even if the stack is completely destroyed,
your script will not touch the database if it has this feature enabled.